.TH SETBAUD 1 "September 2021" Linux "User Commands"
.SH NAME
setbaud \- set custom baud rates on a Linux terminal device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setbaud
\fIDEVICE\fR [\fIINRATE\fR/\fIOUTRATE\fR] [\fIOUTRATE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The standard UNIX termios interface allows only a limited number of baud rates (9600, 384000, 115200, etc.) to be configured for a terminal device.
Many UARTs, like in USB to serial converters or SOCs, support a much greater range of baud rates, some of which are better suited for interfacing with microcontrollers or automation busses than those traditionally used on modem lines.
.PP
Linux, via the termios2 interface, allows to set baud rates other than those standardized for terminals. This interface however is not accessible through standard tools.
.PP
This tool allows to set arbitrary baud rates for the input and output lines on a terminal device under Linux. Which combinations of rates at what accuracy are actually supported depends on the individual hardware and kernel drivers used.
.PP
In addition to setting the baud rate, the terminal is configured to raw mode (no echoing, no special character handling, etc.) as with
.BR cfmakeraw ().
For adjusting terminal settings like parity and stop bits refer to
.BR stty (1).
.PP
\fIDEVICE\fR specifies the path to the terminal device to be configured.
.PP
\fIINRATE\fR and \fIOUTRATE\fR specify the rates for the input and output lines respectively, in bauds per second.
.br
If only one rate is specified, this will be used for both directions.
.PP
In case no rate is specified, the current baud settings of the device will be printed to standard error without any changes being made to the terminal configuration.
.SH EXAMPLES
Print the currently set input and output rates of the first USB to serial interface to standard error:
.IP
setbaud /dev/ttyUSB0
.PP
Set the input and output rate on the first USB to serial interface to 125kbaud/s:
.IP
setbaud /dev/ttyUSB0 125000
.PP
Set 125kbaud/s for input and 250kbaud/s for output on the first USB to serial interface:
.IP
setbaud /dev/ttyUSB0 125000 250000
.SH BUGS
Note that unsupported settings may lead to devices assuming a different than the desired configuration without reporting an error.
.PP
In the output of
.BR stty (1),
non-standard rates are reported as 0 baud.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Johannes Schmitz
.SH SOURCE
git://github.com/jonny112/setbaud.git
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stty (1)
.BR termios (3)
